how to create a plan for standout social
media content in 2024 you're short on
time it feels like there's a million
platforms you're trying to grow in
multiple places at once do you need to
create new content for each one of those
platforms what about recutting and
repurposing what's working and what's
not today in this episode of build your
tribe I shellene Johnson am going to
share with you my personal social media
strategy process the content plan that
we're following currently and fingers
crossed so far so good but as you know
algorithms change and when that happens
so too often does our content plan but I
want to share with you some things that
we've tried that did not work including
hiring a social media agency I'm also
going to share with you what I think is
the easiest way to produce multiple
pieces of content per week and I'm going
to share with you my exact strategy and
process they say content is king or
content is Queen but content is also a
pain in the butt especially because
you're probably watching this you're you
are the the CEO you are the business
owner you are the business Creator you
are the person who comes up with the
ideas you're the person who manages the
staff or the team you're the person who
writes the emails probably you are the
entrepreneur who is the machine behind
the business but you're also in most
cases the content it's you who people
want to see on camera it's you who
people want to see on stories it's you
who people they want to read your words
and so the idea of Outsourcing you is
not even lick a thing even though I
tried desperately to do that this year
so because my goal we we have five
different businesses that I basically am
the CEO of those businesses of course my
husband is we call him the CFO but he's
the co-ceo but in terms of like the
managing of people and certain expertise
are my lane and certain things related
to operations and numbers are his Lane
it requires a lot of time it requires
you being engaged and involved with your
team and looking at strategies and
coming up with ideas and sometimes
reviewing emails and it's a lot right
just just running a business is a lot
also to create content for YouTube for
audio podcasts for Tik Tok for Instagram
for X for like all the other platforms
that is a lot too because even just one
platform like Instagram is a beast it's
not just posting a video it's posting
stories it's posting pictures it's going
live it's captions it's it's a lot and
the content can no longer in my op
opinion just be repurposed to multiple
platforms oh I forgot to even mention
Facebook can't forget Facebook Facebook
is still a really big thing I mean my
target audience a lot of my target
audience is on Facebook and I don't live
on Facebook I really know Instagram I
really know Tik Tock I really know
YouTube and I feel like I've lost a
little touch with Facebook so I'm just
going to be honest with you and tell you
I'm not going to share much about my
strategy today on Facebook because I
need to revisit it so I'm just being
honest so today what I'm going to share
with you is you YouTube Instagram and
Tik Tok when I'm looking at these five
business centers where that we've really
wanted to grow this year in 2023 I made
the initiative that I was going to step
back from content creation and spend
more time devoted to being a better CEO
in order to do that that meant that I
needed to bring on more people to help
me create content to take my content and
repurpose it to all these other
platforms and it has
been a very interesting process to say
the least man have we made some mistakes
I look at people like the herois or Gary
Vayner chock and the amount of content
that they produce and it's so easy to
compare and to think that's what I
should be doing too but the fact of the
matter is what other entrepreneurs are
doing who cares honestly because we
don't know their level of happiness I
don't care what somebody makes I don't
care how popular somebody is what I
really want to know is like how happy of
someone how much
downtime that's how I define success
like how much can I step away and
actually enjoy going out to dinner with
my husband or just like chilling out
with my friends and still like have the
things that I want to have can I still
live the life that I want to live buy
the things that I want to buy enjoy life
but like truly enjoy it that's success
to me there's no way I can look at any
of those names I just mentioned and know
if in fact they get to enjoy life all I
know is if I'm trying to keep up with
them I can't so one of the things that
we decided to do was to hire an agency
an agency to take my YouTube videos like
this one chop them up and turn them into
reals or YouTube shorts and we hired I I
I took the advice of a friend um who I
loved his reals and uh I said who who
are you using he's like all right I'm
going to tell you who I use tells me who
he uses and we end up up spending I'm
going to give you prices and everything
we ended up spending I think it was
about
$150 it would if the reels had been good
it would have been
$150 per reel we were giving them the
clips we couldn't ask them to watch the
30-minute video this meant that we were
someone on my staff was watching the 30
minute video finding the like one to two
minute clip finding different pie
sending that those little Clips to them
and then they were piecing them together
putting captions on top of it and
sending it back to us for $50 each okay
before we go much further if you're
watching here on YouTube Just a special
request to double check and make sure
that you're subscribed because
subscribing is free and when you
subscribe you get a Year's worth of Good
Karma and maybe even a new car I'm not
saying I'm buying you a new car I'm just
saying like you might get one subscribe
and we had to sign a pretty decent size
monthly contract that promised us like
two to three three of those per
day they were so bad they were so bad so
I can't even tell you how bad they were
and this is one of the top agencies so
then we tried another agency then we
tried another consultant and maybe it's
because I'm female but everything that
we got back looked like everybody else's
stuff it was just so like you know the
flying graphics and the Emojis and the
bright colors and the like it was just
like I don't know it just feels like
white noise it did not feel like me and
meanwhile we gave our editor and the
agency a lot of specific feedback I said
I don't want this to look like all the
dudes on YouTube I don't want this to
look like all the other reals I'm seeing
I don't want this to look like a podcast
talking head with all the flying colors
and the bright green and the yellow and
the I I don't want I want it to feel
like me I a woman needs to watch this
and relate to it a woman want I need
female colors I don't want to be
cheesy and they just it didn't matter
what editor we used they it kept coming
across like all the other crap that's on
Instagram and even when we did I rarely
posted any of those CU I'm like I I hate
this so why am I even posting it but in
a few instances I'm like in case I'm
wrong let's just post it and see turned
out to be crap look it just was
terrible okay so that didn't work so
then we went back to the drawing board
and we're like okay this repurposed
podcasting content that was ideal for me
because I film a YouTube multiple
episodes right so I do a build your
tribe that's what're you're listening to
or watching right now and I also do a
shellene show YouTube and I do I was at
the time doing three of those a week
then we cut back to two of those and now
we're only doing one of those why are we
only doing one because it's working and
the other one is just audio okay I
digress so I film all those videos that
takes a lot of time the idea was that we
would be able to find the right editor
who could really chop up one of those
like great little comments a sassy
little mic drop moment and put that in a
a real that would work and it felt like
me it didn't feel like regurgitated this
like weird thing that's happening on
Instagram right now it took us a while
to figure that out we finally got that
down but It ultimately it boiled down to
my
team when we tried to Outsource this to
an agency or an editor they just didn't
get my
humor my
timing my audience my avatar and my
intention with my my audience so when
you're giving your content to an editor
if they don't know who it is you're
trying to reach and what it is you're
trying to say and and the overarching
message in general General then you have
to spell it out for them every single
time and that takes more time than it
saves you we ultimately after probably
nine months of trial and error got to
the point where it's like okay the
person who edits my YouTube videos is
now also working hand inand with a
social media strategist on my team who
is helping them select the right clips
and then editing that piece of content
so that it can work on Instagram but it
still feels like me and it doesn't feel
like a regurgitated chunked up chopped
up sliced up diced up Podcast slapped on
Instagram it feels like content that I
filmed for Instagram so that's step one
step one is we have someone on my team
goes through time stamps the parts where
it's like okay this could be a
standalone clip then our editor comes in
and puts in Boll Boll that I've approved
Boll that they know fits with my avatar
it's it's we have a working relationship
now that might not be in the budget for
you at the moment but I'm not talking
about you necessarily hiring a full-time
person this is just somebody who like
you regularly work with them maybe it's
a part-time person but you have a
longstanding relationship with them so
they really understand you your brand
your message your sense of humor where
it is your going your strategy your your
Cadence like all those things it's so
much easier when you have a a working
relationship with somebody and again it
does not have to be full-time so that's
our first line of defense it's like okay
so now we've got one reel at least one
probably five reels will come from each
video in addition to that we were trying
to take that piece of content and
posting it on Tik Tok that does not
work what Tik Tok wants is long form
content like Tik Tok is really
I think gunning for Instagram okay so so
what are we doing on Tik Tok I'm going
to tell you what we're doing so the
message or the bullets or the main
points of the YouTube video that I
create my social media strategist will
then send
me a follow-up text that's the only way
I can communicate I hate slack and I
hate email so she will send me a
follow-up text and set that will say
like here are five things that you
talked about in this video all I need is
that quick little reminder then I open
up my phone and I talk direct to camera
to Tik Tok recording it in the Tik Tok
app and I will go anywhere from 2 to 5
minutes Tik Tok loves long form Tik Tok
loves for you to post horizontal
video they will push your content if
you're doing that Tik Tok doesn't want
it cut up they don't at the moment 2024
they don't want you to edit it they
don't want jump cuts they don't want
b-roll they don't want Flying uh
captions they don't want anything that
looks like it belongs on Instagram they
want you to open up the phone and have a
conversation it's almost keep you
company type
content and so we started doing that so
I was like okay so I've got these Five
Points again it still kind of stems from
the original YouTube video but I get
those five points and then I just Riff
on one of them and now I have five
different topics that can riff from on
my Instagram now what my team does is I
download I save the video before posting
it to Tik Tok I save it to my camera
roll then I upload it to Dropbox and
then a member of my team takes that long
form video that I posted to Tik Tok
that's direct to camera that's much more
so I'm not using a podcast mic it's just
you know open camera right and it feels
much more raw it feels much more
authentic and they take that video and
they chop it up
short tight add captions and that's
additional content for
Instagram the next step is to take that
same piece of content let's say uh uh
let's say I riff for example on the
importance of strength training for
women over 40 and I'm just riffing on
Tik Tok okay so now we've got the Tik
Tok video then the team cuts it up and
now we have a an Instagram reel taken
from my Tik Tok right now that same
content gets sent to a member of our
team who takes it and now uses AI
artificial intelligence to just make me
sound a little bit more polished and
turns my rant
into individual thoughts that are
Carousel posts again to use that same
example I've done a Tik Tok I've talked
about the importance of strength
training for women over 40 it gets
chopped up and now we have a reel that's
a little bit tighter with cap options on
the importance of strength training for
women over 40 that gets sent off to a a
strategist or a member of my team who
then takes and goes okay how can we turn
this these the points that she makes in
this video into a Carousel and let's say
the first point is that muscle becomes
your metabolic Spanx okay that's one
Carousel post the next post might be
that women over 40 can build muscle at
equal or greater the rate of a woman
who's in her 20s or 30s and then the
next one might be that if you want to
increase your metabolic and improve your
metabolism and decrease body fat as
you're aging you've got to include
strength training so like each one of
those is like a little Carousel even
though they're like they're they're
points that I made in the video but now
they've turned them into a carousel but
you can't at least for me anyways my
content can't always look the same it
has to look fresh it can't look like I
outsourced it to an
agency okay so now I've got let's see if
we're counting backwards we've got the
original podcast
the original YouTube has been cut up and
that's on Instagram then we've got the
Tik Tok that's been cut up from the
points I made in the original Instagram
and now we've got a reel from that then
we've got the carousel from the original
piece of content now the fifth piece of
content is to take like one really sassy
quote and turn it into a quote
card easy simple and the sixth piece is
sometimes and we're just experimenting
with this is doing a two part Carousel
which is almost like a a cover so in
this example you're seeing a twoos slide
Carousel the first slide is what I would
call the thumbnail or the cover of the
Carousel and it's it's just making a
statement that makes people want to
swipe when they swipe what they're
getting is just a single clip and that
clip also came from the same podcast so
we're getting six pieces of content from
One Singular idea from one YouTube now
some additional things I want to share
with you that I think is important I
don't think I'm ever going to get to a
stage where all of this could be
outsourced and I'm not looking at it and
I'm doing a deep dive right now on my
patreon uh related to uh Dave and Rachel
Hollis and you know one of the stories
that I find very interesting is what
happened when they got so busy that a
lot of their social media was being
outsourced and a lot of controversy
surrounded that because there were
quotes that
were uh not attributed to the original
author Rachel was accused of
plagiarism and when she apologized
publicly she said you know I I didn't
post this my team posted this and
certainly not the right way to apologize
but it just made me realize if it's your
content you are responsible for every
single word if it's representing you if
you're
posting as
you one poorly timed
meme one wrong comment one even the
wrong word in the wrong place where it's
like yeah I've used that word but not in
that context or that's almost the way I
would say it it can really have a
tremendously negative impact on your
brand so I don't know that I will ever
get to a place where I completely
Outsource all of this I I need to see it
before I gets posted and maybe you
disagree with me but if it's my words
even if it's my words even the way it's
cut up I still need to see it and I
think nobody knows what's going to land
with our audience if you really know
your avatar if you really know your girl
your guy the person who's following you
you know what's funny for them what's
going to resonate with them you know
what words are cheesy what words
disconnect and I personally think it's
really important that I spend that time
there and it's timec consuming and as
much as I have spent the last n months
trying to find a way to pull myself away
from this and to let somebody else run
that machine I think if nothing else the
last nine months have taught me that's
just
unrealistic it has to be me it has to be
my
voice and I hope at some point like I
don't have to spend as much time doing
this but for now this system has freed
up a lot of my time now instead of
having me having to go like huh I've got
think of of six new pieces of content
now it's like okay I'm filming one video
and from that video we're able to create
these different types of content that
work on these separate platforms because
each platform is very different what
works on YouTube shorts is not exactly
what works on Tik Tok it is not exactly
what works on Instagram so I know it
seems like a lot I want you to be
encouraged I want you to know that there
are ways to make this easier but you've
got to be strategic don't give up be
creative and I hope that this was
helpful for you if it was do me a favor
drop a comment below and let me know if
you want me to break down my entire
content strategy and I mean how many
emails we send per week based on all the
different brands that we operate how
many different stories I produce lives
the different Instagram accounts and Tik
toac accounts we have for each brand if
you want me to do like a really in-depth
review of all of the moving Parts I'd be
happy to do so in the meantime it is my
goal to be brief to be bright to make it
fun and then be done we're done thank
you for being here
bye do she have something on her teeth I
thought I did did I have a seed in my
teeth stand
[Music]
by clean teeth
okay
[Music]
oh